Hi, welcome back.
Something that we are going to look at in this video
is pretty mental, and a lot of people
in the Python community don't really understand
how this works, and that is, that you can use
the yield statement to receive data,
as opposed to only give it back.
Here's an example: we're gonna define a greet function,
and this is going to say, friend equals yield.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, what's going on here?
Well, let's have a look.
Then we're gonna print, hello friend.
So this looks weird; it looks bizarre.
And it looks weird to me too,
but what's happening is we're gonna say,
friend is equal to
suspend the function.
And then we're gonna print out the value of friend.
And this has been designed this way in Python
so that we can suspend the function,
but then also receive a value after we resume it.
And the value we receive is going into friend,
and then we can print that out here.
We're gonna say, g equals greet,
and the first thing we have to do
is run the function up to right before the yield.
So we can say g.send, none.
This is called priming the generator.
Priming, priming the generator.
And what this does, is it sort of runs it up to
right before the yield,
and then we can do g.send, Adam, for example.
This is what's going into the yield,
and the function is then going to assign Adam to friend,
and we're gonna continue here.
Let's run this file.
Okay?
So, we get a couple of things.
We get, hello, Adam, so that's awesome, this works.
But of course, we also get, StopIteration,
because there is a yield here,
which means this is a generator,
and the generator ends after we print.
There's no sort of repetition,
there's nothing else to yield,
so we get a StopIteration, because that's
the end of the generator.
So this receiving through yield is weird,
but it's actually what makes asynchronous Python
development possible.
Let's look at another example right now.
We're gonna have our deque,
then we're gonna have our friends, which is gonna be
a deque of Rolf, Jose, and so forth,
and then, we are going to have a friend_upper function.
This is going to say, while we have friends in our deque,
we're gonna say friend equal friends.popleft().upper()
so it's gonna get the leftmost element of friends,
it's gonna remove it from the deque,
and it's turn it all to uppercase.
This is the way of doing that in Python.
Then it's going to say, greeting equal yield,
and it's gonna print, greeting, friend.
Okay, so this is very strange the way this looks.
It's gonna loop over friends,
gonna get the first friend and turn it to uppercase,
and then it's gonna suspend the function
until we receive a value here through the yield
and the value we're gonna receive is some sort of greeting,
and then when we receive that value, it's gonna print out
greeting and the friend, and then it's gonna repeat again,
popping the next friend off the list, off the deque, sorry,
and then waiting again for some data
to come through this yield.
So the function is gonna suspend
at this point,
until we get some more data and then when we do,
that data is gonna be assigned to greeting,
which is then gonna be printed out and so forth.
And then, we're also gonna have a greet function again.
This function is going to prime the generator
by sending none to it.
So again, it's receiving a generator here,
which is gonna be this friends upper here,
and it's gonna send none to it to prime it
and bring it up to the first part of the yield
here just before the yield,
and then while true, is going to again take a greeting
and yield it, and send it over to the generator
that was passed in as a parameter.
So, very weird stuff going on here.
Let's finish off the code to see
if this makes any more sense.
We're gonna create a greeter variable,
which is gonna be, greet,
and we're gonna pass it in a generator,
which is gonna be a friend upper generator.
The first thing we're gonna do is we're gonna prime
the greeter generator.
So we're gonna do greeter.send(None).
Again, you know what this does.
It just moves the generator up to before the yield,
so greeter.send(None) is gonna move the generator up to here
running this primer.
So it's gonna prime friend upper, and then it's gonna stop
right before the yield.
Then, we're gonna do greeter.send('Hello').
This string here is gonna go into the yield
and be assigned to greeting,
and then it's gonna be sent to friend upper,
which is our g.
When we do that, that's gonna be assigned to greeting.
Remember, it was primed earlier on,
and then it's gonna be printed out
using this friend upper thing.
Let's run this.
And there you have it.
We print out, hello, Rolf, and that's it.
What we've got ourselves here,
is some pretty amazing thing.
None of these functions is running,
but they're all suspended, allowing something else
to run.
For example, we could print,
'Hello, world!
'Multitasking.'
and then greeter.send, 'how are you', for example.
We could run this again.
And now you can see that we are multitasking, essentially.
First we've got hello Rolf,
then we've got something completely separate
from our chain of functions,
even though they're running in a loop,
and then we've got, how are you, Jose.
And notice how this is taking data from this deque up here.
If we have a bunch of this type of things
running in a task scheduler,
for example, instead of popping from friends,
it could be requesting something from the internet,
like some pages to scrape,
you can see how these could potentially be used
to divide up the work by using these yields.
And it's pretty messed up, okay?
Well, this is sort of how it works.
And this is how Python asynchronous development works
on the inside.
Now, instead of doing all of this,
we can actually do something, which...
I don't like it; nobody in the Python community likes it,
which is, we can do yield from g.
This, which we looked at before,
was used to extract values from an iterator,
actually can be used for two-way communication as well.
It can be used to receive data,
and forward it to another generator.
So here when we send, hello,
it comes in here, and it gets passed over to g as well,
and then it can be used, and then whatever value
then gets returned back.
So this is another way of writing exactly the same
that we had before.
So this, send(None), and sort of repeat constantly,
yielding things, and sending the value can be replaced by,
yield from g, okay?
So we can easily chain these generators,
and when you have generators that receive data,
they're really no longer called generators
because they're not generating anything.
Now they're receiving data and doing something with it.
So from now onwards, this type of generator shall be known
as a co-routine.
And in Python, they're known as co-routines
because they take in data, and they can be suspended,
so that's a co-routine.
In the resources section of this lecture,
we've got some further reading.
It is advanced, so take your time.
I don't expect you to be flying through this section
by any means.
I expect you to be reading through the extra resources.
There's a very long course there on co-routines
and concurrency from David Beazley that's really good.
If you're not that keen on knowing everything
there is to know about concurrency and Python,
feel free to sort of skip through it.
But if you want to really understand what's going on
behind the scenes, then do read all the further reading
and resources that I link you to.
That's it for this video.
Hopefully this was interesting,
and I'll see you on the next one.